I'm gonna be teaching you guys
today DevOps for Developers.
And this is something that I'm incredibly
passionate about, I am a content creator,
and this is something I deal with and
create content around every single day.
I also do it professionally, so
I'm very excited to share this with
you mostly because of the main title,
An introduction to DevOps for developers
and its purpose in software development.
The main goal that I really want people
to be able to take away from this
is to be able to confidently go
into DevOps at any organization.
And simply be able to start applying
some of the fundamentals and
the practices that I'm gonna be
sharing with you guys today.
So let's get started.
So as an introduction,
my name is Erik Reinert.
I'm also known as Blackglasses
on the interwebs.
I'm a senior software engineer, I
currently work at a company called Hippo,
but I've worked at a few other
companies in the past like that.
As I said, I'm a content creator,
we're TheAltF4Stream on Twitch & YouTube,
and I'm basically obsessed
with problem solving.
One of the things that I
started realizing very quickly,
especially about what I do is
where my passions lie with it and
kind of how that plays a role in my job.
And so, yeah,
one of the things that is really,
really big to me is problem solving.
To give a further background, I've kind
of done a lot of different things.
I started out my career in frontend,
and I did that for about 2 years,
and I really got off
actually a CS4 with that.
So I was taking phone calls,
and I had an opportunity where I
started building stuff on the CS4.
They started recognizing that,
and they were like, hey,
we might have an engineer here.
And so they actually took me
out of customer support, and
it's a frontend where I started my career.
And that first 2 years was really
focused on building frontends for
enterprise companies, I worked at
a company at the time called Media Temple,
you guys may have heard of it.
It's a web-hosting company, and
my job was really focused on
making buttons clickable.
[LAUGH] And that was definitely a part
of my life for quite some time,
and as much fun I had with it,
I started realizing that frontend might
not be exactly my true passion in life.
After that, I decided I was just
gonna start following my curiosity.
I didn't really know how to get to
the job I wanted or my dream job, but
I knew that if I followed my curiosity,
I could hopefully get there.
And so from there, I took 2 years into
backend, I actually just jumped to
a completely different company,
I said, I feel like doing backend now.
And so I took that and I ran with that,
I started building backends for
a iOS mobile app.
And another thing too is I jumped
into it with very little knowledge.
A lot of what I have focused on is really
been around my curiosity around things and
using that as something to kinda guide me.
As you do when you start dealing
with backend and stuff like that,
I think it's very common for a lot people
to start getting fascinated with other
parts of the stack or the whole
entire stack, you know what I mean?
You conquer frontend in some regard, and
then you get to backend and you're like,
okay, I can do it all.
And I thought I could too.
And so
I actually took another job after that for
about 2 years,
where I started working in fullstack.
And this is really, I think,
where I started experiencing,
as an engineer, what DevOps felt like.
Because in that scenario with fullstack,
you're getting closer to owning much
more of the actual bottom up all of it.
And that really started opening up new
opportunities for me in the sense of where
I was troubleshooting the stack in a
different way that I'd never done before.
I was looking at the stack
in a different way,
I wasn't compartmentalized
to just one thing.
I wasn't just focused on frontend,
I wasn't just focused on backend,
I was started to do both.
However, I again followed my curiosity and
started realizing
that one of the things I loved about
this was just problem solving.
I love being able to look at
the entire stack and say like, okay,
here's where I can be super helpful or
here's where we can try and
solve this problem and things like that.
And again, I started out my career moving
to Los Angeles as a writer and director,
and then somehow ended up in engineering
[LAUGH] and doing what I do now.
So none of this was planned, none of this
was something I expected to even do.
And again, I followed my curiosity
of problem solving with that.
And so I had a friend, actually who
works in DevOps, and he was like, hey,
you might be interested in looking
at problems from a much more
higher organizational level than just
a specific product or things like that.
And so I did it again,
I moved to a different company, and
when I moved to my different company, I
had an opportunity to readdress my title.
And so I was like, you know what,
I've already done frontend,
I've already done backend, and I've done
fullstack now, why don't we try DevOps?
And yeah, it was incredible, I never
thought that I would, especially so
early in my career, be so passionate
about something that I really love doing.
And there's reason to why I'm sharing
this too, there's a couple of reasons.
The first off is that DevOps
is definitely a collection of
knowledge over a period of time.
It is not in some regard
something that is just,
you pick up a book and
you start reading about it.
Even this course is, as much as I'm
gonna try and get you guys understanding
what DevOps is, a lot of it is
still just gonna be experience.
So when we talk about getting into DevOps,
I'm not saying you need to have eight
plus years before you go into it, but
what I am saying is that, just showing
from my own path, my own course, it helps.
[LAUGH] It helps a lot,
especially when you've got crazy
circumstances that you're in.
>> If you have an interest in DevOps,
would you recommend it for
somebody who's entering into the field or
entering into tech in general?
>> I don't think that it's not
possible for you to go in DevOps,
especially if you're just
entering the industry.
I think the thing that you have to be open
minded is is just you're not gonna know
everything.
There are people who even if they're not
in DevOps are going to be able to walk
up to a problem and simply solve it
quicker because they've been through it.
So, I definitely think it's possible,
I think, again, it's gonna be more of
a learning experience before you
start getting comfortable with,
maybe the company you're at, the stack
you're dealing with, and things like that.
We're gonna dive into DevOps, but we're
really gonna start from scratch with it.
And again, the big point here is that
I want to basically make you unlearn
everything you know about DevOps.
There's a really great quote that I know
from a musician that I'm not gonna say so
I don't get judged about it, but
the quote is good, which is for
you to understand me, you first have
to unlearn everything about me.
And that's just the common scenario of,
we're so used to tabloids and
other things like that.
It's hard to understand maybe somebody,
your idol, or
something like that because you're
not just getting the real picture.
And I realized that that's
kind of DevOps right now.
[LAUGH] There's a lot of things out
there that are kind of misleading,
and so I really wanna start from scratch.
Okay, so I'm gonna give you first starters
the more watered-down version of it,
but it is pretty
straightforward version of it.
To enter a career in DevOps,
it is helpful to
have an experience in both software
development and IT operations.
This may include experience with coding
and scripting languages, as well as
experience with systems administration and
infrastructure management.
Again, I'm not saying that this is
a requirement, it's helpful, right?
Having a strong understanding of
collaboration and communication tools,
methodologies, such as agile and
lean principles, can be beneficial.
Again, not required but beneficial.
It is also important to have a passion for
continuous learning and staying
up-to-date with the latest technologies
and best practices in the field.
So, as I just said, right before we
even got to this introduction by kind of
shaping my career path and my interests,
you might be able to start seeing
why I'm so interested in DevOps and
things like that.
You can definitely take
the knowledge that you have and
apply it to problem solving
at a much higher level.
And again, it's not a circumstance
where you need to know everything about
a specific language,
we're not talking about that here.
What we're talking about is that we just
need to know that if a service is down and
it's written in Go or JavaScript or
whatever, hopefully, you can debug that.
[LAUGH] That's kind of the job
that we need to be able to do.
And again,
I think the last part is really important.
It's important to have passion for
continuous learning.
We live in an industry right
now that is so fast and
updating constantly that if you're not
staying up-to-date with either practices,
principles, strategies,
things like that, you might realize that
you're doing old things that have
been improved upon 10, 15 years ago.
And you're just still doing them because
that's the practice you're used to.
So this, again,
is a very simple but hopefully more
well defined version of kind of
what DevOps means as a term.
Basically, the best way of
looking at it is DevOps
is understanding first and
its tools second.
DevOps is a philosophy,
it is not a technology.
And so I do wanna note that if your first
step into DevOps is to look at a tool,
then you might not be
looking at DevOps correctly.
And to be fair,
a lot of companies do that.
It's about understanding the problem
first and then saying, okay,
what are the tools that we can
use to solve this problem?
Not saying,
I just heard about a really cool tool,
maybe that'll solve our problem.
That's not really the case here.
And I actually, I'm gonna exemplify
this in our course today.